My name is Christina Cicchetti. I'm one
of the librarians in the UCR library.
I'm going to give you a brief overview
of searching for articles in one of the
library databases called Academic Search
Complete.
So to get to Academic Search Complete, you can start
on the library
homepage at library.ucr.edu
Then scroll down to the databases link on the lower right side of the homepage.
Click on the databases link and type in the name of
the database "Academic Search Complete"
and then just click on the name of the
database to enter.
So academic search complete is a good place to begin
research for many different papers
because it's an interdisciplinary
database that includes magazines and
journal articles from a lot of different
areas of study meaning that you can find
something about almost any topic in this
database. So, for example, I'm interested
in finding information about the college
admissions process, so I can type in the
words "college admissions" and click
search and I find quite a number of articles
a little over 13,000. Now if I
want to be sure that I am searching
those words as a phrase and not as
individual words, then I can put
quotation marks around the words and
repeating the search with the quotation
marks, that reduces the size of my search
results a little bit so that I now have
a little over ten thousand articles, but
ten thousand results is still a very
large set of search results. It's really way
more than I'm going to be able to look
at and evaluate or use.
So when you get really large search
results like that, that's often a clue
that you may need to narrow down your topic.
So one recent debate in the
college admissions process has been the
role of standardized tests such as the
ACT in the college admissions process.
So I can add the word SAT to my search
boxes and notice that I'm using the "and"
operator between "college admissions" and "SAT" and using that operator tells the
database that I only want to see
articles that include both the phrase
"college admissions" and the acronym "SAT".
So if I search again, you can see I've
really narrowed down my search results.
Now I am down to a little over 500 as
compared to 10,000 something.
Now another test is frequently used in a similar way
to the SAT and that is the ACT, so if I
want to see articles that talk about
either one of those tests in the college
admissions process, then I can type "OR ACT"
in the search box along with "SAT" and
using the "or" operator now tells the
database that along with the phrase
"college admissions", I want to see any
articles that have either the word "SAT"
or the word "ACT".
They could have both terms, but they don't have to.
So using the "or" operator should open up my search
a little bit and broaden it and so in
fact, you can see I picked up
approximately 200 additional articles by
including "ACT OR SAT"
tests in my search results.
So once you get some search results, you
know kind of scroll through look at the
titles, the abstracts, and make sure that
you're reasonably happy with the type of
articles that you're finding, but when
you're reasonably happy with with what
you're seeing, then you can look to the
limit options over here on the left-hand
side of the screen that gives you some
additional options for narrowing down
your search results. So notice that down
here in the publication date
that in this particular set of search results,
my oldest article is
from 1957 and I don't think I want to go
all the way back to 1957.
So I am going to limit my results to articles that
have been published in the last five years
So that leaves me with a 170 articles
Another limit option that you may want to use sometimes you may want to limit your search results to
scholarly or peer-reviewed journals and
so if you want to do that you can just
click on the button in front of that
option and so now I'm left with 58
articles all from scholarly
peer-reviewed journals or academic journals.
So scholarly peer-reviewed
journals review article submissions with
a panel of experts who work in the same
field as the author and this extra layer
of review means that these journals are
some of the most highly respected
sources out there.
Another important thing to note about peer reviewed journals is that they mostly publish the original results of
research, which is not the case with magazines and newspapers.
So the fact that these are research-based, also adds to their credibility.
Using these types of sources will add depth and credibility to your own papers.
So the search results page shows me the citation information and the abstracts
for the articles that I'm finding, along with some subject headings down here.
If I click on the title of the article, that will open the full record for me.
So here is the complete record for this first article
that I have found and notice that
there's a number of tools over here on
the right that I can use. So I could save
this record to a Google Drive. I could
print it. I could email it. I could save
it into a file. There's also a permalink
option here if I want to create a stable
URL that I can use to get directly back
to this record in the database or I can
use the cite tool over here to get a
citation for this particular article in
whatever citation style
I prefer, so oftentimes MLA style, but it
depends on the instructions of your
professor. So once you've selected the
style that you want to use for your
citations, then you can just copy and
paste that citation into your
bibliography page. Please do note the
caveat up here at the top, to please
review and make any necessary
corrections before you use the citation.
That's an essential part of the process,
but it's still a big time-saver over
building this citation yourself from
scratch.
I can also add this record to the folder
that is up here at the top of my search
results page and if I go back to
my full result list, I can add articles
to that folder from this page as well
by clicking on the little folder icon to
the right.
And that puts all of my selections into
this folder up here at the top of my
results page and now I can print these,
email them, save them, or export them all
as a group instead of having to do them
one at a time, so I can confirm that
indeed, I still want all of the three
articles that I've selected. If I come
over here and email them, for example,
notice that I do still have the option
to choose a citation format that I would
like to receive along with the article on record.
Please note that when you send things to yourself that all you are
sending yourself is the record and not
necessarily the full-text. If there is a
PDF link to the full text, then you will
get that in your email, but if there's no
full text link that's part of the record, then there's another way that you have to go look for that article
So notice that this first search result does have
a link to the full text of this article
in PDF format so it's very easy to get to it.
The second article has a similar link.
Sometimes you might see HTML full text
links instead of PDF
but then there's some articles that don't
have either in a PDF or an HTML link to
the full article and that's where this
UC-eLinks button comes in.
So I can click on this UC-eLinks button and that's a tool that the library uses to try and
connect to you from the citation and
abstract in one location to the actual
document itself in another location.
So that opens up typically a UC-eLinks menu such as this and this is telling me that
I should be able to get this article from a source called Wiley Online Library.
So if I click on Wiley Online Library
that takes me into the journal which
originally published this article and
here I do have a PDF link to the article.
So keep in mind that if you are not
finding the full text on some other way
make sure you check those UC-eLinks to
see if you can actually get to the article.
You will not necessarily find every article in the database in our library holdings.
Although most of the
time, you will find that the library has
holdings for them, but in the event that
we do not have holdings in our library
you could come down here to the "Request this from the library" link and clicking
on that takes you into our interlibrary
loan and document delivery service and
this allows you to request a copy of
this particular article from another
library that does have the article and
then it would be sent to you typically
when you request an article through
interlibrary loan it will be emailed to you
and you should allow at least three
to five days, sometimes longer, to have
that filled.
So that's a very quick introduction to
using the Academic Search Complete database.
If you have further questions,
please go to the top of the library home
page, click the "Ask Us" button and there's
a lot of different ways there that you
can connect with the librarians to have
your questions answered.